ROLL IETF Interim Meeting 20200626

Jabber room:  roll@jabber.ietf.org  -- information for setting https://www.ietf.org/how/meetings/jabber/

https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/interim-2020-roll-04/materials/
https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/j.php?MTID=mf9250059100987f251de5701729cc8e2

Slides: https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/interim-2020-roll-04/session/roll

+--------------------------------+
|   PARTICIPANTS - BLUESHEET -   |
+--------------------------------+
Ines Robles - (Logged as ROLL WG)
Dominique Barthel
Rahul Jadhav 
Remous-Aris Koutsiamanis - IMT Atlantique, France
Michael Richardson 
Pascal Thubert (logged as LPWAN WG)
Alvaro Retana - Futurewei Technologies
Georgios Papadopoulos - IMT Atlantique (psilos as alias)
Dimitrios Sourailidis - IMT Atlantique


Webex:  
Jabber:  people



AGENDA: 
    
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/agenda-interim-2020-roll-04-roll-01/

+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                               ROLL Interim  Meeting                              |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                      AGENDA                                      |
|                                                                                  |
|                               Friday, June 26, 2020                              |
|                                                                                  |
|    Etherpad: https://etherpad.ietf.org:9009/p/notes-ietf-roll-interim-20200626   |
|              Github where the link to the recording will be posted:              |
|       https://github.com/roll-wg/ROLL-Interim-Meeting/tree/master/20200626       |
|                                                                                  |
| Material: https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/interim-2020-roll-04/session/roll |
+------------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------+
|    Time (UTC)    |                    Topic                    |    Presenter    |
+------------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------+
|  13:00 - 13:30   |                  WG Status                  |  Ines/Dominique |
|     [30 min]     |                                             |                 |
|                  |         -  status of unaware-leaves         |                 |
|                  |   -  status of capabilities draft  (Rahul)  |                 |
|                  |        -  status of mopex draft    (Rahul)  |                 |
|                  |          -  status of useofrplinfo          |                 |
+------------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------+
|  13:30 - 13:50   |       status of DIS Modification draft      |     Georgios    |
|     [20 min]     |                                             |                 |
+------------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------+
|  13:50 - 14:10   |  draft-thubert-roll-eliding-dio-information |      Pascal     |
|      [20 min]    |                                             |                 |
+------------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------+
|  14:10 - 15:00   |                  Open Floor                 |     Everyone    |
|      [50 min]    |                                             |                 |
+------------------+---------------------------------------------+-----------------+

1PM UTC meeting starts


1:05 going through agenda and milestones
1:07 Going through the status of WG drafts submitted to IESG
* RPL AODV: coments from Alvaro, new tickets. New authors to address problems raised
* Unaware: pruned the tree of possibilities. Made consistent with NP_DAO draft. Also some cleanup.
  Provide comments in the next few days for a chance to get them in before Alvaro processes the doc.
* MOPEX: moved Extended Control Option bit to msb.
  Discussion on 1 bit or 2 bits to distinguish Extended vs legacy options. Any comment, please chime in?
  Extended Options work as a replacement for legacy options (albeit costing 1 more byte), but not vice-versa.
  Probably reserve 192 Extended options, and 64 legacy options.
* CAPabilities: 
  Pascal: currently, list has all caps or none. A way to send a few ones, specifically?
  Pascal: related to the abbreviated options. Will come back to this later in the meeting.
  List of capabilities in query. If absent, responder will send a list of all capabilities.
  Pascal: needs to beexplained that node asking for Cpa1 and Cap3, only receiving Cap1, can use a timeout and request Cap3 again.
  Pascal: case of Root querying all nodes. Would like something "tell me if you don't support Cap5". No strong garantee since the query message might get lost anyway.
  Rahul: should this be done through DAO or CAPQ?
  Pascal: Trickle-style or diffusion-style. CAPs need more reliablity than routing info.
  Pascal: another example is Root querying for available memory in nodes.
  MCR: assuming Root already has a complete list of nodes? so that it knows it has got a complete answer. If not, how does it know when it is done?
  Pascal: could go unicast for the nodes it knows and hasn't received an answer from.
* UseOfRPLInfo:
  Alvaro: change log is several hundred lines, ten revisions. Unsure what to do with IESG.
  MCR: most changes relate to unaware-leaves. You could tie this draft to the review of that one.
  Alvaro: will advertise list of real changes with IESG, and see if another review is needed
  Pascal: thorough review done at the WG. 
  Alvaro: IoT directorate did not review this. Could add an IOTDir review to executive summary of changes, to expedite it through IESG.
  Ines: will do.
* Ines goes quickly through other drafts.
* RootAck draft: Rahul will update based on advances on unaware-leaves.

1:49 DIS modifications draft (Georgios)
  * need feedbak on use cases. will show results of DIS modifications.
  * goes briefly through the 4 current use cases.
  * any more use cases, please let us know!
  * goes through proposed modifications to DIS.
  * shows examples of network topologies and benefit.
  * shows simulation results (Cooja/Contiki NG).
  * Debate:
  * Pascal: MC option is tricky to use. You don't know what value to put in the request.
  * Pascal: Electrical meter reboot use case. Suggest to use Trickle to cancel sending a DIS.
  * Dominique:  we use the delay spread option for unicast answer. 
  * Rahul: Imin 12 (4 seconds). DIS sent within 4 seconds. If high network density, root keeps resetting Trickle period.
  * Pascal: rephrasing the issue: 
  * Rahul: was discussed on the mailing list.
  * Pascal: already discussed difference between resetting the period of the Trickle timer to Imin and resetting the timer at 0.
  * Rahul: We wont be restarting the I if the timer is already in Imin. Then, the shutdown issue is still there.
  * Pascal:  in the Electrical Meter boot use case, meters should realize that the DIS sent by neighbors is a duplicate of theirs.
  * Questions: use-cse draft stays separate or becomes merged into solution draft? Merged.
  * As Appendix or into main part? Pascal: advocates for main part.
  * Currently two docs with modifications to DIS. What merge/split? To be discussed offline

2:46 draft-thubert-roll-eliding-dio-information (Pascal)
  * RPLv1 was designed for fixed configurations.
  * RPLv2 targeted to imporve network operation, add features while nextwork is running. Without bringing it down and restart
  * great review of draft by Rahul.
  * elaborates on comments
  * explains benefit of AOO. More code complexity (remember RCSS per option) but saves on DIO size.
  * alternative would be to have all options constitute THE context with one RCSS. More/larger DIOs.
  * Alternative would be AOO is a capability, must be known from parent, so that they know what to send.
  * Rahul: would prefer option 3 (slide 3), i.e. dropping the AOO completely. Maintaining RCCS per option is quite a complexity.
  * Rahul: can still introduce it later if really needed. Would recommend to go simple right now.
  * Pascal: agrees that AOO as a CAP is going beyond control. Recommend to either do AO or not do AOO.
  * Pascal: historically in RPL, accepted a little more complexit in order to save bytes.
  * Pascal: assume that Rahul's comments only apply to DIO. But we also need to consider DAOs. For DAOs, I believe we still want the compression provided by the RCSS.
  * Rahul: get it. Still does not mean we want AOO.
  * Pascal: do we want DIO compression and/or DAO compression?
  * Rahul: compression is good, but AOO state is complex (must be persistent, etc.)
  * Pascal: if Option and RCSS as stored together, they are either in persistent storage or they a renot. If they are not, you loose everything and have to restard from scratch.
  * Pascal: looks DIO compression is worth the complexity.
  * MCR: update rate is the issue, getting them to flash. Updating a flash block
  * Pascal: the 5 options and their associated RCSS should go into the same flash block.
  * Pascal: intuition different from Rahul's. But not strongly convinced.
  * Rahul: one update per week is too frequent.
  * Rahul: as an implementer, I want an option to use a single RCSS for the set of 5 options.
  * Pascal: The complexity in code is mainteining 5 values of the controls vs just one
  * Rahul: AOO should not be mandatory to use.
  * Pascal: where does the complexity come from?
  * Rahul: in RAM, need to store RCSS for each option.
  * Pascal: 10 bytes instead of 2. For the whole RPL network, not per peer.
  * Pascal: seeking advice, just an intuition.
  * Pascal: also, adoption by the WG?

3:16 pm
   Next meeting in September, will send a Doodle out.
   Meeting is closed.
