Action Points from Roll-interim Meeting 20200429:

- Pascal: To add unaware-leaves slides to GitHub [Pascal]
- Rahul+all: design of new Option and backward compatibility (minute 0:36-0:39)
- Rahul+all: design capability extension mechanism (organised in bytes? - get for IANA advice) (minute 0:44-0:46) 
- Rahul: bring discussion to the ML on new capability for routing resource / neighbor cache. (minute 0:46 -:0:47:23)
- Aris+all: NSA - IPv6 compression - (minute 0:55 to 1:08) - ghc, Mopex draft to evaluate mechanism considering 
sent two DIOs in a row (minute 1:06-1:07)
- chairs: WGLC for nsa-extension
- chairs: Interim meeting in May, to discuss RPL observations issues, notably "RPL ping" (minute 1:20- 1:27) 
- Georgios/Dominique: update dis-mods with use case provided by Pascal, check eliding-dio for use cases (minute 1:38 -1:40)
- chairs: To get reviews for enrollment-priority
